#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Comments on the game of 1820
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Game design: J C Lawrence
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
by J C Lawrence
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The history of railways in England is characterised by failure.
 The requirements of founding a railway company as simple as they were impractic
al: an enthusiastic prospectus promising untold fortunes, gullible investors,
 and a brief claim that 
\emph on
this time it will be different
\emph default
.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the heyday of the bubble, the railway industry employed a fifth of the
 country.
 Railway companies were founded in their hundreds, discovered that profits
 were were rare and temporary, and failed in their hundreds, leaving their
 debt-riddled carcasses to their middle-class investors to try and run --
 who rarely knew anything of railways but had more good money to throw after
 bad.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And so the mergers began.
 
\emph on
Surely if we can't make money apart, together we can!
\emph default
 Well, not so much.
 So clearly the answer to that problem was even more mergers...
 And then in 1913 Dr Richard Beeching reported that 
\emph on
this just won't work
\emph default
 and over 6,000 miles of railway track and almost 2,500 railway stations
 were cut.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But profits remained scarce....and this is the world of the game of 1820.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
The shape of the game
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the beginning, life is good.
 Players will generally start out floating 2-4 companies each.
 And the trains are cheap, the runs comparatively immense, and they'll make
 money hand over fist.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
